**1. Briefly summarize the requirements and goals of the app you developed. What user needs was this app designed to address?**

A: Eventify is a mobile application that streamlines event management for busy users. The app allows users to create and add events to a list with a title, description, date, and time. Eventify also provides the option for the user to enable SMS notifications to remind them on the day of a scheduled event. This app was designed to address the need for a reliable personal event tracker that can help ensure users remain both organized and punctual. 

**2. What screens and features were necessary to support user needs and produce a user-centered UI for the app? How did your UI designs keep users in mind? Why were your designs successful?**

A: Eventify features two screens necessary to provide its core functionality: the login screen and the event list screen. Users can create an account and then begin using it via the login screen. After logging in, the application navigates to the Event List Screen, which displays a list of upcoming events the user has added to their schedule. This list shows a title, description, date, and time. The list is also sorted by date. Adding an event is handled with a dialog window that appears after pressing the "Add Event" button. In this window, users can create an event with their desired information and also enable SMS notifications if they would like. Pressing events in the event list triggers another dialog window to appear, this time displaying the full details of an event, like its description, that would normally be cut off in the list. One way my UI produces a user-centered experience is by highlighting interactable elements to quickly and efficiently identify them for users. For example, the "Logout" button on the Event List Screen is colored red to convey to the user its significance, while the "Add Event" button has the same color as other buttons in the program for consistency. Utilizing dialog windows instead of navigating to entirely new scenes was another decision to make the UI more user-centered. Dialog windows are big enough to easily display everything needed while also feeling quicker to navigate to compared to a new screen. 

**3. How did you approach the process of coding your app? What techniques or strategies did you use? How could those techniques or strategies be applied in the future?**

A: My approach to coding my app involved utilizing modular design principles. An example of this can be seen in how all of the SQLite database creation and interaction is handled within its own DatabaseHelper class. This class is then used by DataGridActivity, which is the class for the event list screen. Developing the app with this logic separated from the code that handles the UI made the entire process much easier, as once the core functionality was finished, I was able to meticulously refine the UI without needing to change anything with the DatabaseHelper. I intend on utilizing these types of techniques going into the future, as modularity has been instilled into my head at every point while learning how to code. Designing applications to be modular facilitates easier debugging, easier updates, and an easier life. 

**4. How did you test to ensure your code was functional? Why is this process important, and what did it reveal?**

A: My testing process for Eventify included extensive use of error and event messages to indicate successful events or what went wrong. This came in handy many times, especially when integrating DatabaseHelper into the DataGridActivity. This comprehensive use of messaging was crucial for finding some of my earliest bugs, which was actually the reason for introducing these messages. Testing also includes a lot of trial and error. One particular headache that comes to mind was balancing the columns of the event list to not cut off any dates or times. During this time, I was also dealing with edit and delete buttons that I have subsequently done away with. Overall, my testing methods were able to reveal areas that needed improvement.

**5. Consider the full app design and development process from initial planning to finalization. Where did you have to innovate to overcome a challenge?**

A: One area I innovated to overcome a challenge was for the previously mentioned edit and delete buttons. Initially, each event listing had its own edit and delete buttons that users could use to interact with the listings. A problem came from the fact that this introduced additional columns into the weight calculation when displaying listings and made the date and time columns hard to balance to ensure they were never cut off. During my time attempting to balance everything, I realized users didn't have an option to simply view the full details of an event, besides pressing edit, and would need a third button. I felt this was becoming too clunky and instead implemented a dialog window to replace the functionality for the buttons and handle viewing events. These dialog windows were also a better solution in my mind as opposed to having entirely separate screens. 

**6. In what specific component of your mobile app were you particularly successful in demonstrating your knowledge, skills, and experience?**

A: One specific aspect of my mobile app that is particularly successful in demonstrating my knowledge, skills, and experience is my commenting and formatting throughout the application. In my opinion, good code is code that can be read by someone who doesn't code. My extensive use of commenting quickly and concisely informs anyone looking what does what. I also ensured my code was formatted neatly to indicate clear separations between blocks of logic.
